Add answers for general FAQ questions (#930)
graphql/graphql.github.io: src/content/faq/General.md

## Why should I use GraphQL?

It depends on your use case, but in general, GraphQL has a few key features that stand out. For example, GraphQL enables you to:

* Improve performance and stability by [sending queries](/learn/queries/) for the exact data you need. 
* Aggregate data from [multiple UI clients](/learn/queries/#fragments) in [a single request](/learn/best-practices/#server-side-batching-caching ).
* Create a representation of your data that feels familiar and natural ([a graph](/learn/thinking-in-graphs/#it-s-graphs-all-the-way-down-https-en-wikipedia-org-wiki-turtles-all-the-way-down)).
* Ensure that all of your data is [statically typed](/learn/schema/) and these types inform [what queries the schema supports](/learn/introspection/).
* Examine queries and responses through community tools like [GraphiQL](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql).

And many others! [Our homepage](/) outlines some more convincing reasons to use GraphQL.

> Additionally, it doesn’t take rewriting your entire application to try out GraphQL. You can even start with a single HTTP request that wraps an existing REST call, for instance. Your [GraphQL schema](/learn/thinking-in-graphs/#shared-language) and [business domain model](/learn/thinking-in-graphs/#business-logic-layer) can be expanded gradually, so we’d recommend focusing on one use case at first and only build the part of the schema you need for that to work. 

Reviewer: I love it!

> ## Is GraphQL a database language like SQL?

Author: @IvanGoncharov Should we address the misconception that GraphQL only works with databases that are graph-based? Or save that for a separate question?

Reviewer 2: I think we can address it by changing:

> GraphQL is designed for APIs, not databases.

into something like: GraphQL is designed to work any data source exposed through API, not only database.

No, but this is a common misconception. GraphQL is designed for APIs, not databases. It’s a specification for how to request and modify data through an API layer. Then it determines how that data is communicated between servers and clients.

> 

Reviewer: I'm so happy I can send people to those answers!

Something that I keep telling people is:
```
GraphQL is a query language for any data.  That data can be provided by arbitrary functions and those functions can call APIs, databases, local cache or any representation of data you can think of.

So the main and most common use case is calling APIs, but some people also find it useful to interact directly with databases using GraphQL or calling in memory or local cache using GraphQL.
```

I'm not sure if it's too much to add here, but on the other hand I feel that if we just say that GraphQL is just for APIs we miss a lot of possibilities and community solutions like PostGraphile, Hasura, Dgraph, GraphQL Mesh and many others.

So maybe we could mention those options on how open GraphQL is for any data source (which is part of it's power), while still emphasizing that you should probably start using it for APIs

Author: Absolutely! I totally agree with your assessment. I'll rework it and see what I can come up with 🔨

GraphQL is frequently used for database interactions though. For example, it can be built into a wrapper around a database or a [GraphQL server](https://www.howtographql.com/advanced/1-server/) can query various databases. There are also [services](/code/#services) that implement the GraphQL specification and then allow clients to use GraphQL to query that data source. But it can also be used without a database at all.

For more information on how to get GraphQL to interact with your database, check out our [documentation on resolvers](/learn/execution/#root-fields-resolvers).

> ## Does GraphQL replace REST?

Author: @IvanGoncharov I know we said no to third-party links, but you should check out this tutorial ([Incorporating REST Data with a GraphQL API
](https://moonhighway.com/incorporating-rest-data)) and consider it. I think that it explains the concept well and gives a good example.

No, not necessarily. They both handle APIs and [serve the same purpose](/learn/thinking-in-graphs/#business-logic-layer) from a business perspective. GraphQL is considered an alternative to REST, but it’s not a definitive replacement.

GraphQL and REST can actually co-exist in your stack. For example, you can abstract REST APIs behind a [GraphQL server](https://www.howtographql.com/advanced/1-server/). This can be done by masking your REST endpoint into a GraphQL endpoint using [root resolvers](/learn/execution/#root-fields-resolvers). 

> 

Reviewer: I would also add that you could do the other way around - generate REST on top of GraphQL so you could gradually move to REST but still support consumers who needs regular REST endpoints. ([reference](https://the-guild.dev/blog/sofa))

I've found this to be a very compelling argument when introducing GraphQL to developers for the first time

Author: I agree that I think the use case could be good to include. Would you have an idea for somewhere within the docs to link to? We're trying to keep the FAQ neutral and not link to third-party sites.

For an opinionated perspective on how GraphQL compares to REST, check out [How To GraphQL](https://www.howtographql.com/basics/1-graphql-is-the-better-rest/).

> ## How can I learn GraphQL?

Author: @IvanGoncharov Should we maybe recommend becoming familiar with the spec and SDL first? Or offer any sort of guidance for where new learners should start? Something more opinionated could work well for this answer.

Reviewer: I know you didn't ask for my opinion but I'll write it anyway... :)

I believe the `learn` section, including everything in it is very important for people to follow. 
I see a lot of developers that skip through it directly to tutorials and they miss a lot of valuable information.
That includes the best practices sections as well.
After I'm directing them there they have a lot of AHA moments.

I don't personally like that we direct people at the top of the `learn` section to the tutorials, especially the 2 tutorials you are mentioning in the comment here.

Both of them are outdated and if people skip the `learn` section for them it makes for not a great starting experience.

As we should probably work and improve the tutorials section as well, I would recommend to direct people to the tutorial section, not mention specific tutorials and  then tackle the tutorial section to include the best tutorials first.
Hopefully that would lead to a better starting experience and also for people not to skip the important content on the `learn` section

Just my 2 cents

Author: I'm not sure what you mean by "tutorials section"... do you mean the best practices articles? Just want to make sure we're on the same page before I reply fully 😅 

So it's funny because I generally have the opposite opinion to you. Based on my conversations with new GraphQL learners, many come to the `Learn` section and immediately become overwhelmed. There's _so_ much information and concepts being thrown at them and realistically, you don't need to know all of these concepts to be productive with GraphQL. But you're right in that once you dive deeper into GraphQL and run into more use cases, knowing these can certainly help. 

Maybe we can find a compromise. Offer more 'quick' and practical materials for those who just want to be productive enough and then say that to understand the concepts more fully to work through the `Learn` section? 

I know a balance exists, but no one has seemed to find it yet aka why GraphQL is notoriously difficult to learn 😂

Reviewer: By tutorials section I've meant something that might not exists yet 😂
I thought that in the future code or community sections we should have an updated list of all good and up to date tutorials.

And I can related to your opinion, I think they both are true (someone reads too much, then goes to tutorials, then forget to come back to read and misses things)

I think what you have right now is a great balance!
And in the future, once we'll get a good tutorial list, we could rethink it?

There are many resources available to help you learn GraphQL, including this website. In [our documentation](/learn/), you’ll find a series of articles that explain essential GraphQL concepts and how they work. Our [Community page](/community) is full of resources to reference and groups to join.

For more practical guides, you can visit the [How to GraphQL](https://www.howtographql.com/) fullstack tutorial website. We also have a free online course with edX, [Exploring GraphQL: A Query Language for APIs](https://www.edx.org/course/exploring-graphql-a-query-language-for-apis). 

> ## Is GraphQL frontend or backend?

Author: @IvanGoncharov Should we explain some of the benefits of GraphQL for frontend and backend devs here? I started to but then the answer became long and complex.

Reviewer: I agree with your comment that you **could** also use GraphQL just for the backend and just for the frontend.
I believe those are actually important use cases.

The frontend even more in terms of adoption - 

Most of our larger clients have difficulties (political, technical) for introducing another gateway into their existing stack.
Adding GraphQL only on the frontend actually made adoption much faster in those companies, that later on were convinced to move that layer as a gateway.
Companies like PayPal, Microsoft and many others have went through that route.
So I believe mentioning that could open easier doors for early adoption.

Neither. Instead, it’s [how you can exchange information between the two](https://www.howtographql.com/basics/3-big-picture/). Both the client and the server should understand and communicate through the GraphQL specification.

## Does GraphQL replace Redux or other state management libraries?

No, GraphQL isn’t a state management library - but it can reduce the need for one.

One benefit of state management libraries like Redux is that they can manipulate API responses into a format that your application understands. With GraphQL, you have control over [what data you request](/learn/queries/#fields) and [how that data is formatted](/learn/execution/). So this benefit is already built-in. Many [client libraries](https://graphql.org/code/#graphql-clients) can also be used to manage state and have features like caching built-in. You may still decide to implement a state management library, but using it to format response data won’t be necessary.

> ## Is GraphQL only for React or JavaScript developers?

Author: @IvanGoncharov I like the answer on [How To GraphQL](https://www.howtographql.com/advanced/5-common-questions/) better, but I'm not sure which aspects are the most important to include here. Would love your opinion on this.

> No, not at all. [GraphQL services can be written in any language](/learn/schema/#type-language). Our [Code page](/code/) contains a long list of libraries available to help with that.

Reviewer: maybe - `... libraries in many different programming languages ...`

Author: Good call, I'll add!

It’s understandable why you’d think this, though. GraphQL was introduced at a [React conference](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9sc8Pyc51uU) and [GraphQL.js](/graphql-js/) is one of the most widely used reference implementations to date. We know this can be confusing, so we’re working to improve our documentation and add more code samples that aren’t written in JavaScript.

## What is a GraphQL client and why would I use one?

> GraphQL clients can help you handle [queries and mutations](/learn/queries/) to a [GraphQL server](https://www.howtographql.com/advanced/1-server/). This could be done manually, but it would require a lot of work depending on the amount of data you have. By utilizing the underlying structure of a GraphQL API, clients can abstract away some of these tedious processes. Features that can be automated include batching, caching, UI updates, build-time schema validation, and many more. 

Reviewer: queries, mutation and subscriptions

Author: True - @IvanGoncharov wdyt? I remember there were limitations to discussing subscriptions since we don't have explicit docs on it and want to keep the FAQ vendor-neutral but I can't remember exactly what they were.

It takes more time to implement a GraphQL client upfront, but it becomes worth it the more features you need. You might want to start out [using HTTP requests](/learn/serving-over-http/) as the underlying transport layer (here’s [an example in JavaScript](/graphql-js/graphql-clients/)), then switch to a more intricate client service as your application grows in complexity.

## What is the GraphQL Foundation?

The [GraphQL Foundation](https://foundation.graphql.org/faq/) provides governance for GraphQL as well as vendor-neutral oversight of funding, events, operations resources, and more. It was formed in 2018 by [various tech companies](https://landscape.graphql.org/category=graph-ql-foundation-member&format=logo-mode) and hosted under the [Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/). The idea is that it’s an open, neutral home for the GraphQL community.

You can find out more by visiting [foundation.graphql.org](https://foundation.graphql.org/).

## How can I contribute to the GraphQL specification?

> GraphQL is still an evolving language and contributions are very welcome! The specification (including the [latest working draft](https://spec.graphql.org/)) is open source and [contributor guidelines](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-spec/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) are available on GitHub.

Reviewer: should this question be expanded into also open source libraries together with the spec?

Author: This was a debate I had early-on as well - should this be a general contributing question or specific for the spec. I went with the spec because it was proposed in the original faq repo, but I don't see the harm in expanding it (as long as the answer doesn't become long and bloated). 

Any specific libraries you think should be highlighted? Or do you mean more of a general 'we also have some libraries' note?

Reviewer: I guess we could mention the foundation libraries like graphql-js, GraphiQL express-graphql?
and also maybe link to the code section?
also maybe mentioning contributing to the website itself!

## Why should I use GraphQL?

It depends on your use case, but in general, GraphQL has a few key features that stand out. For example, GraphQL enables you to:

* Improve performance and stability by [sending queries](/learn/queries/) for the exact data you need. 

> * Aggregate data from [multiple UI clients](/learn/queries/#fragments) in [a single request](/learn/best-practices/#server-side-batching-caching ).

Reviewer 2: @carolstran Do you mean `multiple UI components`?

Author: Yes! Good catch, I'll update.

* Create a representation of your data that feels familiar and natural ([a graph](/learn/thinking-in-graphs/#it-s-graphs-all-the-way-down-https-en-wikipedia-org-wiki-turtles-all-the-way-down)).
* Ensure that all of your data is [statically typed](/learn/schema/) and these types inform [what queries the schema supports](/learn/introspection/).

> * Examine queries and responses through community tools like [GraphiQL](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql).

Reviewer 2: We can add a point about schema evolution and that GraphQL not only has a built-in mechanism for deprecations but also greatly reduces the number of situations where you need to do breaking change.
Moreover, GraphQL actually gives you insights into what data is actually used by your clients so even in situations where you need to do breaking change you can effectively communicate it with affected clients.

Author: Tried to squeeze that all into a bullet point, will be included in the next commit - curious to hear what you think!

## Is GraphQL a database language like SQL?

> No, but this is a common misconception. GraphQL is designed for APIs, not databases. It’s a specification for how to request data and it determines how that data is communicated between servers and clients.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
No, but this is a common misconception. GraphQL is designed for APIs, not databases. It’s a specification for how to request/modify data through API layer and it determines how that data is communicated between servers and clients.
```

Author: Decided to break it into two sentences, but kept your edits!

GraphQL is frequently used for database interactions though. For example, it can be built into a wrapper around a database or a [GraphQL server](/code/#server-libraries) can query various databases. There are also [services](/code/#services) that implement the GraphQL specification and then allow clients to use GraphQL to query that data source. But it can also be used without a database at all.

For more information on how to get GraphQL to interact with your database, check out our [documentation on resolvers](/learn/execution/#root-fields-resolvers).

## Does GraphQL replace REST?

No, not necessarily. They both handle APIs and [serve the same purpose](/learn/thinking-in-graphs/#business-logic-layer) from a business perspective. GraphQL is considered an alternative to REST, but it’s not a definitive replacement.

> GraphQL and REST can actually co-exist in your stack. For example, you can abstract REST APIs behind a [GraphQL server](/code/#server-libraries) or mask your REST endpoint into a GraphQL endpoint using [resolvers](/learn/execution/#root-fields-resolvers). For an opinionated perspective on how GraphQL compares to REST, check out [How To GraphQL](https://www.howtographql.com/basics/1-graphql-is-the-better-rest/).

Reviewer 2: > you can abstract REST APIs behind a [GraphQL server](/code/#server-libraries)

> mask your REST endpoint into a GraphQL endpoint using [resolvers](/learn/execution/#root-fields-resolvers)

I think the second statement is one of the approaches to achieve the first one.

```suggestion
GraphQL and REST can actually co-exist in your stack. For example, you can abstract REST APIs behind a [GraphQL server](/code/#server-libraries), building proof of concept can be as simple as masking your REST endpoint into a GraphQL endpoint using [root resolvers](/learn/execution/#root-fields-resolvers). For an opinionated perspective on how GraphQL compares to REST, check out [How To GraphQL](https://www.howtographql.com/basics/1-graphql-is-the-better-rest/).
```

Author: Pushed a different version. A bit different wording than what you suggested, but same concept. Let me know if you want me to update it more!
